Document Anbox WebRTC data proxy service (#165)
anbox-cloud/discourse-docs: howto/stream/oob-data.md

  This version supports only half-duplex data transmission. It allows sending data from an Android application to a WebRTC client through the Anbox WebRTC platform, but it is not possible to receive data from the WebRTC client to an Android application.

[note type="caution" status="Warning"]

> The support to [version 1](#oob-v1) of the out-of-band data exchange between an Android application and a WebRTC client has been removed in Anbox Cloud 1.16 release. Therefore, you should migrate your integration of version 1 of the OOB data exchange to [version 2](#oob-v2) for full-duplex data transmission and better performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The support for [version 1](#oob-v1) of the out-of-band data exchange between an Android application and a WebRTC client has been removed in the Anbox Cloud 1.16 release. Therefore, you should migrate your integration of version 1 of the OOB data exchange to [version 2](#oob-v2) for full-duplex data transmission and better performance.
```

   anbox cloud <--  the received data
   ```

### Anbox WebRTC data proxy

To build up the communication bridge between an Android application and the Anbox WebRTC platform, Anbox Cloud provides a system daemon named `anbox-webrtc-data-proxy`. This daemon is responsible for:

>  - accept connection requests from an Android application
>  - connect to one specific data channel via Unix domain socket exposed by the Anbox WebRTC platform
>  - pass the connected socket as a file descriptor to the Android application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Accepting connection requests from an Android application
 - Connecting to one specific data channel via the Unix domain socket exposed by the Anbox WebRTC platform
 - Passing the connected socket as a file descriptor to the Android application
```

    @Override
    protected Void doInBackground(Void... parameters) {
        try (InputStream in = new ParcelFileDescriptor.AutoCloseInputStream(mFd)) {
            byte[] data = new byte[1024];
            while (!isCancelled()) {
                int read_size = in.read(data);
                if (read_size < 0) {
                    Log.e(TAG, "Failed to read data");
                    break;
                } else if (read_size == 0) {
                    // EOF reached
                    break;
                }

                byte [] readBytes = Arrays.copyOfRange(data, 0, read_size);
                ...
                ...
            }
        } catch (IOException ex) {
            if (!isCancelled())
                Log.e(TAG, "Failed to read data: " + ex);
        }

        return null;
    }
}
```

#### Send data to the Anbox WebRTC platform

To send data to the Anbox WebRTC platform through the file descriptor:

```
OutputStream ostream = new FileOutputStream(mFd.getFileDescriptor());
try {
    ostream.write(data.getBytes(), 0, data.length());
} catch (IOException ex) {
    Log.i(TAG, "Failed to write data: " + ex.getMessage());
    ex.printStackTrace();
}
```

> For a complete Android example, see the [out_of_band_v2](https://github.com/anbox-cloud/anbox-streaming-sdk/tree/master/examples/android/out_of_band_v2) project.

Reviewer: The link doesn't exist yet - I guess the project will be merged before we publish?

   anbox cloud <--  the received data
   ```

### Anbox WebRTC data proxy

> To build up the communication bridge between an Android application and the Anbox WebRTC platform, you must implement a service or daemon that is responsible for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build up the communication bridge between an Android application and the Anbox WebRTC platform, Anbox Cloud provides a system daemon named `anbox-webrtc-data-proxy`. This daemon is responsible for:
```

 - The socket connection
 - Polling events
 - Forwarding data between both ends

> Meanwhile, a system daemon named `anbox-webrtc-data-proxy` running in the Anbox container registers an Android system service `org.anbox.webrtc.IDataProxyService` which allows Android developers to easily make use of binder IPC for data communication between an Android application and Anbox WebRTC platform through a file descriptor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `anbox-webrtc-data-proxy` system daemon runs in the Anbox container and registers an Android system service named `org.anbox.webrtc.IDataProxyService`. This service allows Android developers to easily make use of binder interprocess communication (IPC) for data communication between an Android application and the Anbox WebRTC platform through a file descriptor.
```

> [note type="information" status="Note"]To interact with `org.anbox.webrtc.IDataProxyService` system service, the Android application must be [installed as a system app](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/how-to-install-an-apk-as-a-system-app/27086). [/note]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[note type="information" status="Note"]To interact with the `org.anbox.webrtc.IDataProxyService` system service, the Android application must be [installed as a system app](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/how-to-install-an-apk-as-a-system-app/27086). [/note]
```

> #### Access Data Proxy Service
> 
> There are two ways to access the `org.anbox.webrtc.IDataProxyService` from an Android application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Access the data proxy dervice

There are two ways to access the `org.anbox.webrtc.IDataProxyService` from an Android application:
```

> - If you develop the application with Android studio, you can access the service by using the Android's reflection API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you develop the application with Android studio, you can access the service by using Android's reflection API.
```

```
    IBinder getDataProxyService() {
        IBinder service = null;
        try {
            Method method = Class.forName("android.os.ServiceManager").getMethod("getService", String.class);
            service = (IBinder) method.invoke(null, "org.anbox.webrtc.IDataProxyService");
        } catch (NoSuchMethodException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        } catch (IllegalAccessException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        } catch (InvocationTargetException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        } catch (ClassNotFoundException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }

        return service;
    }

> ```

Reviewer: This code block must be indented to be part of the bullet list.
(If this causes issues with the spell check, you might need to remove the empty line in the code.)

> - Or if you ship the Android Application inside of AOSP source tree and [build](https://source.android.com/docs/setup/build/building) it form there, you could utilise the Android's hidden API to do so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you ship the Android application inside of the AOSP source tree and [build](https://source.android.com/docs/setup/build/building) it from there, you can use Android's hidden API to access the service.
```

```
    IBinder getDataProxyService() {
        return ServiceManager.getService("org.anbox.webrtc.IDataProxyService");
    }

> ```

Reviewer: Must be indented.

> #### Connect Data Channel
> 
> To fetch the file descriptor referring to one data channel, send a request to the data proxy service through a binder transaction:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Connect the data channel

To fetch the file descriptor that refers to one data channel, send a request to the data proxy service through a binder transaction:
```

```
        ParcelFileDescriptor mFd = null;
        String channel = "foo";   // denotes data channel name
        Parcel data = Parcel.obtain();
        Parcel reply = Parcel.obtain();
        try {
            data.writeInterfaceToken("org.anbox.webrtc.IDataProxyService@1.0");
            data.writeString(channel);
            mService.transact(TRANSACTION_connect, data, reply, 0);
            mFd = reply.readFileDescriptor();
            if (mFd.getFd() < 0) {
                Log.e(TAG, "Invalid file descriptor");
                return;
            }
            ...
            ...
        } catch (RemoteException ex) {
            Log.e(TAG, "Failed to connect data channel '" +  channel + "': " + ex.getMessage());
        } finally {
            data.recycle();
            reply.recycle();
        }
```

> #### Receive data from Anbox WebRTC platform
> 
> Once the valid file descriptor is returned, launch an asynchronous task to read data from Anbox WebRTC platform:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Receive data from the Anbox WebRTC platform

Once the valid file descriptor is returned, launch an asynchronous task to read data from the Anbox WebRTC platform:
```

```
public class DataReadTask extends AsyncTask<Void, Void, Void> {
    ...
    ...
    @Override
    protected Void doInBackground(Void... parameters) {
        try (InputStream in = new ParcelFileDescriptor.AutoCloseInputStream(mFd)) {
            byte[] data = new byte[1024];
            while (!isCancelled()) {
                int read_size = in.read(data);
                if (read_size < 0) {
                    Log.e(TAG, "Failed to read data");
                    break;
                } else if (read_size == 0) {
                    // EOF reached
                    break;
                }

                byte [] readBytes = Arrays.copyOfRange(data, 0, read_size);
                ...
                ...
            }
        } catch (IOException ex) {
            if (!isCancelled())
                Log.e(TAG, "Failed to read data: " + ex);
        }

        return null;
    }
}
```

> #### Send data to Anbox WebRTC platform
> 
> To send data to Anbox WebRTC platform through the file descriptor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Send data to the Anbox WebRTC platform

To send data to the Anbox WebRTC platform through the file descriptor:
```

```
    OutputStream ostream = new FileOutputStream(mFd.getFileDescriptor());
    try {
        ostream.write(data.getBytes(), 0, data.length());
    } catch (IOException ex) {
        Log.i(TAG, "Failed to write data: " + ex.getMessage());
        ex.printStackTrace();
    }
```

> For a complete Android example, see the [out_of_band_v2](https://github.com/anbox-cloud/anbox-streaming-sdk/tree/master/examples/android/out_of_band_v2) project for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a complete Android example, see the [out_of_band_v2](https://github.com/anbox-cloud/anbox-streaming-sdk/tree/master/examples/android/out_of_band_v2) project.
```

            while (!isCancelled()) {
                int read_size = in.read(data);
                if (read_size < 0) {
                    Log.e(TAG, "Failed to read data");
                    break;
                } else if (read_size == 0) {
                    // EOF reached
                    break;
                }

                byte [] readBytes = Arrays.copyOfRange(data, 0, read_size);
                ...
                ...
            }
        } catch (IOException ex) {
            if (!isCancelled())
                Log.e(TAG, "Failed to read data: " + ex);
        }

        return null;
    }
}
```

#### Send data to the Anbox WebRTC platform

To send data to the Anbox WebRTC platform through the file descriptor:

```
OutputStream ostream = new FileOutputStream(mFd.getFileDescriptor());
try {
    ostream.write(data.getBytes(), 0, data.length());
} catch (IOException ex) {
    Log.i(TAG, "Failed to write data: " + ex.getMessage());
    ex.printStackTrace();
}
```

For a complete Android example, see the [out_of_band_v2](https://github.com/anbox-cloud/anbox-streaming-sdk/tree/master/examples/android/out_of_band_v2) project.

<a name="oob-v1"></a>

> ## Version 1

Reviewer: Please add a similar note to the one we have on top here in this section:

```suggestion
## Version 1

[note type="caution" status="Warning"]
The support for version 1 of the out-of-band data exchange between an Android application and a WebRTC client has been removed in the Anbox Cloud 1.16 release.
[/note]
```

 - Accepting connection requests from an Android application
 - Connecting to one specific data channel via the Unix domain socket exposed by the Anbox WebRTC platform
 - Passing the connected socket as a file descriptor to the Android application

The `anbox-webrtc-data-proxy` system daemon runs in the Anbox container and registers an Android system service named `org.anbox.webrtc.IDataProxyService`. This service allows Android developers to easily make use of binder interprocess communication (IPC) for data communication between an Android application and the Anbox WebRTC platform through a file descriptor.

[note type="information" status="Note"]To interact with the `org.anbox.webrtc.IDataProxyService` system service, the Android application must be [installed as a system app](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/how-to-install-an-apk-as-a-system-app/27086). [/note]

#### Get notified about the availability of data channels

To get notified about the availability of data channels, an Android application can register the following broadcast receiver in the `AndroidManifest.xml` file :

>     ```
>         <receiver
>             android:name=".DataChannelEventReceiver"
>             android:enabled="true"
>             android:exported="true">
>             <intent-filter>
>                 <action android:name="com.canonical.anbox.BROADCAST_DATA_CHANNELS_STATUS"/>
>             </intent-filter>
>         </receiver>
> 
>     ```

Reviewer: You need to use either indentation or ` ``` `, not both. For sections like this, we usually use the quotes, thus:

````suggestion
```
<receiver
    android:name=".DataChannelEventReceiver"
    android:enabled="true"
    android:exported="true">
    <intent-filter>
         <action android:name="com.canonical.anbox.BROADCAST_DATA_CHANNELS_STATUS"/>
    </intent-filter>
</receiver>
```
````

> Then a broadcast which carries the following parameters is sent out to the Android application on the change in the availability of data channels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whenever the availability of data channels changes, a broadcast is sent out to the Android application. The broadcast contains the following parameters:
```

| Parameters               | Type                                            | Description                                                                                                                                                                |
| ------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------- | -----------------------------------------------                                                                                                                            |

> | `event`                  | String                                          | Can be `"created"` or `"destroyed"` respectively denotes the data channels are created and open for Android applications to use, or the data channels are closed and destroyed. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `event`                  | string                                          | Can be `created` (which means the data channels are created and open for Android applications to use) or `destroyed` (which means that the data channels are closed and destroyed) |
```

Reviewer: I assume that the strings don't contain the double quotes? So it's, for example, `created` and not `"created"`?

> | `data-channel-names`     | String array                                    | Comma-separated list of data channel names that identify the changed data channels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `data-channel-names`     | string array                                    | Comma-separated list of data channel names that identify the changed data channels
```

> The Android application implements a subclass of the [`BroadcastReceiver`](https://developer.android.com/guide/components/broadcasts#effects-process-state), which responds to the above events that are sent by the Android system.

Reviewer: We are giving instructions here for how users should implement their Android application, correct?
Then it should be "should implement", not "implements".

>     ```

Reviewer: Same comment about the indentation.

                } else if (read_size == 0) {
                    // EOF reached
                    break;
                }

                byte [] readBytes = Arrays.copyOfRange(data, 0, read_size);
                ...
                ...
            }
        } catch (IOException ex) {
            if (!isCancelled())
                Log.e(TAG, "Failed to read data: " + ex);
        }

        return null;
    }
}
```

#### Send data to the Anbox WebRTC platform

To send data to the Anbox WebRTC platform through the file descriptor:

```
OutputStream ostream = new FileOutputStream(mFd.getFileDescriptor());
try {
    ostream.write(data.getBytes(), 0, data.length());
} catch (IOException ex) {
    Log.i(TAG, "Failed to write data: " + ex.getMessage());
    ex.printStackTrace();
}
```

For a complete Android example, see the [out_of_band_v2](https://github.com/anbox-cloud/anbox-streaming-sdk/tree/master/examples/android/out_of_band_v2) project.

<a name="oob-v1"></a>
## Version 1

[note type="caution" status="Warning"]
The support for version 1 of the out-of-band data exchange between an Android application and a WebRTC client has been removed in the Anbox Cloud 1.16 release.

> [/note]

Reviewer: We'll need an empty line after the note (otherwise it won't show up correctly).

Author: Thanks
Fixed.
